# Earth’s New Imperial Era

In the wake of the Third World War, the United States entered an imperial era and was rechristened as the Imperial States of America. This forced many other major powers to unify in an effort to maintain their own sovereignty as the ISA was adopting an expansionist policy and seeking to strengthen their political influence through militarization. A new space race ensued and saw the Earth’s major governments expand beyond the confines of the planet. Colonization of the solar system became the next frontier and whoever could capture the greatest territory would have a huge resource advantage.


## The Imperial States of America

The ISA is the successor state to the old United States of America, however, this new incarnation is very different than the original. Over the course of the 21st Century the US had been experiencing an economic decline when compared to the rest of the world and lost much of the luster it once had. Eventually an imperial movement began to spread in the halls of power and a plan was hatched to dissolve the old government completely, replacing it with one that would not be financially in debted to foreign or private interests. Though this was sold to the people as a plan to revitalize the economy and save the nation, it did not go over well with the country’s creditors (specifically the World Bank). The final result was that China went to war against the US to force them to honor their debts and from that conflict emerged a new world order. China had collapsed as a unified entity and the American Empire stood tall as the most powerful nation on the planet. The economic stranglehold that the World Bank held on the nations of Earth was officially broken and other countries quickly followed suit in resetting their economies.

The ISA controls far more territory than it did under the rule of the United States. An invasion of Canada, by China, was used as an excuse to annex the Yukon, British Columbia and Alberta, with all three of those territories becoming official states within the Empire. Many areas formerly under the control of China are now Imperial Territories (as well as Cuba, Haiti and Jamaica) with the Dominican Republic finally becoming a State. The President is now chosen from Representatives in Congress (who now can only be elected from natural born citizens) and serves for a period of 25 years with no opportunity for re-election. Citizenship is no longer guaranteed by birth and is only earned through 2 tours of military service or by completing a university education. Many nations have adopted similar standards. Citizen or not, life isn’t particularly oppressive in the empire and people are generally free to live as they please, though everything is far from equal. Citizens get a better deal on taxes and are guaranteed more protection under the law (such as being innocent until proven guilty). One huge change is the division and application of power at the federal level, as the government now holds more authority than the individual States do. It is now much harder to counter actions taken by the White House or Congress.


## The European Union

The European Union is still around in 2216, though the nation did not emerge from World War 4 in very good shape. During the middle of the conflict, when the second attempt at peace was underway, talks were taking place in Switzerland. That nation had remained neutral and still served the same role it always did as an independent center of international banking. It was never determined who was guilty of this, but somehow an orbital defense satellite was hijacked and fired multiple nuclear warheads at the country during the peace talks. Switzerland was annihilated along with just about everyone who was pushing for peace. The world was stunned by this act and, in the aftermath, it was the military hardliners who were left in charge (with everyone pointing fingers). Within a matter of days the fighting resumed and it would take the arrival of the refugees to finally bring it to an end.

The who or why hardly matters at this point. The European Union emerged from the war in the worst possible condition and must devote vast resources to deal with this ecological disaster. Per capita, they probably have the largest percentage of people with Cybernetic Bodies in the world, as this is one of the few effective options to survive massive radiation exposure. Economically, the Union is in very bad shape since large tracts of land are no longer viable for economic development or habitation. They do still have operations in space that remain intact (forming a steady source of income for the nation) and they have been the most successful in developing economic ties with Mars, providing resources & manpower in exchange for vitally needed products. Many had speculated that the Union might break up, and it definitely looked like this could happen had it not been for the arrival of the refugees. Back on their homeworld, the Elves had entire nations devoted to the religion of Druidism and much of this population appeared in or around the continent of Europe.

Though there were some casualties due to radiation exposure, the Druids were able to quickly & effectively adapt to this situation. They have taken it upon themselves to research magic to clean the environment and are slowly & steadily reclaiming territory lost to the disaster. Based on their progress, estimates would place a total ecological restoration (not counting the destruction of Switzerland and the surrounding mountains) some time in the next 50 years. It is uncertain if the mountains of Switzerland will ever be habitable again, but the Druids are committed to making sure that future generations in Europe aren’t condemned to living in an artificial body just to survive.


## The New Commonwealth

When the United States transitioned into an Empire, this caused many lesser powers to form political alliances in the interest of protecting their sovereignty. Though Great Britain was one of their chief allies, and in no actual danger, they saw the writing on the wall and realized that other nations might feel differently. Consequently, the territories that were historically part of the British Empire (and still had strong political and economic ties) chose to strengthen their relationship into something more akin to a political superpower. The New Commonwealth (or the NC) is formed from an alliance between Great Britain, Ireland, Canada, India, Pakistan, Australia and Hong Kong. A handful of small African countries along with New Zealand would join up a few years later.

This alliance operates out of Great Britain (as a capital) and all member states are able to send delegates to Parliament as well as put forth candidates for Prime Minister. So far, Prime Ministers have served from all member states, though some more than others. It operates similar to the old United States in that individual member states have more authority over their own domestic affairs, while higher issues such as Supreme Courts, International Trade and Diplomacy are handled at the government level. Though not as established as Imperial America, Russia or the EU in terms of a presence in space, they are a significant player and do maintain their own space fleet (including both military and commercial vessels). It’s also worth noting that even though the Commonwealth, as a whole, is an ally of the ISA, Canada is not on good terms and utterly refuses to open their borders. Their membership in the NC is almost entirely a political move to spite the Empire and hold them at bay.


## Mexico and The South American Alliance

Mexico remains an independent country, though it is a very close ally of the American Empire and many accuse it of being little more than a puppet state. Shortly after the foundation of the ISA, Mexico engaged in an operation (supported by Imperial Troops) to annex several Central American nations. The pretense of this operation was to curtail drug trafficking and the President had, as one of his first actions, declared the drug problem a national emergency (and a crisis on a continental level). The fact that the Central American countries had done little to stop their lands from being used to manufacture or smuggle drugs was officially declared to be an act of war. Though flimsy, this was used as justification for a joint invasion by the ISA and Mexico. Given the severity of the problem, the UN did not immediately do any more than condemn the action and both Presidents were able to defend the plan with extensive documentation showing a failure of diplomatic channels.

Within a week, Mexican territory had expanded all the way to Nicaragua and some began to believe that this invasion may have actually been a pretense to seize control over Panama. When the combined army pushed into Costa Rica, this caused Brazil, Colombia and Venezuela to form a mutual defense pact and send their own forces in to defend that nation. Fighting lasted about a day before international pressure forced a temporary cease fire and the diplomats got a chance to take over. The ISA refused to back down from the assertion that the conquered countries were, by refusing or failing to take effective action against drug trafficking, acting as enemies of North America. Through this argument, they were able to justify the annexation of these lands by Mexico and the ISA would continue to work in partnership with their ally to use military force curtail drug smuggling. To his credit, the President (who had lost his daughter to drugs) was at least sincere in these policies and made the promise a key part of his political agenda until the end of his term. Unfortunately, it did nothing for foreign relations and the ISA has been on bad terms with South America ever since.

The South American Alliance is not a political entity, but a military and trade pact where the primary member states agree to safeguard Central and South America against foreign aggression. It was marked by significant militarization of South America and an effective condition of Cold War against the ISA & Mexico (though there is currently no threat of mutual annihilation). Though this was more out of a need to discredit the pretense of the invasion, the Alliance has taken a very aggressive stance against the drug problem and declared all Drug Lords within their borders to be military targets (though effective, this plan hasn’t eliminated the problem completely). All member states operate independently, but have strong trade ties, open borders, a common currency, a shared International Court and treaties ensuring that certain laws remain consistent between them.

The initial member states included Brazil, Columbia, Venezuela, Nicaragua and Costa Rica. Ecuador, Guyana, Suriname and French Guiana later joined due to a combination of political pressure, trade advantages and the need for mutual defense. Panama remains neutral for political reasons, with the military forces of the South American Alliance, the American Empire and Mexico being forbidden to enter that territory by land for any reason. American and Mexican naval vessels are allowed to pass through the canal as long as strict protocols are followed and trade is still allowed as normal. Under no circumstances are American or Mexican military allowed to disembark from a ship while in the canal. To the south, the remaining South American states have declined to join the alliance for various reasons and the political situation remains complicated (and not entirely peaceful). There have also been accusations that the political & military concessions required to join would reduce their sovereignty, as not all members are represented (or benefit) equally under the current structure.


## Imperial Russia

World War 3 was started due to a financial crisis that inspired the United States to break with the international banking system. China was the primary antagonist in this conflict, as they held many of those loans and stood to loose businesses interests & investments as a result. At its core, the conflict was about breaking the stranglehold the World Bank had on the governments of the world and this was largely successful. Russia fought on the side of the Americans in the war, though there was very little in the way of direct cooperation or coordinated operations. If just happened that Russia saw an opportunity (being China’s closest neighbor) and took it. In the aftermath of that war, Russia followed the lead of America and entered into their own new imperial era.

The Russian President at the time declared himself a Czar and reorganized the country into something more akin to the old Soviet Union, but with more freedom and representation for the people. Russia is now a constitutional monarchy with an elected dictator who is forbidden by law to pass on power to his descendants. Unlike the ISA, which still retains much of the political structure of the United States, Russia has become more feudal, with much of the power invested in the Czar and the new Noble Class (largely represented by powerful political & business leaders) holding a majority of governmental positions. Though a situation that would seem ripe for abuse & exploitation, the Czar (and his Prime Ministers), the New Nobility and the Courts do form something of a stable & balanced political system.

Russia’s refugee population is as large as that of North America & Europe, though some rumors state that they may have an unusually high population of Dwarves (something that may not line up with official census numbers). Because Russia (even in 2216) has a low population density in many areas, they have granted vast tracts of land to refugees to develop. Unfortunately, this also means they have a lot of space for Tribal Orcs to roam free as well. Russia is one of the places where Orc Warbands are still an ongoing problem, due to the ease with which they can hide in the wilderness. During the original refugee crisis there would be an important event in Russia known as the St. Petersburg Incident. Extremist elements within the Russian Military orchestrated a plot to destroy the city of St. Petersburg with a nuclear weapon and attempted to blame it on a Colonel who was working with the American Ambassador to negotiate the ceasefire. The plot was uncovered and stopped by the actions of both men, as well as an Elven Arch-Mage, her bodyguard and her apprentice. The event is so famous that it has been adapted into blockbuster films (twice) and is the subject of multiple history books, novels, graphic novels & interactive videogames.

Russia and the ISA have a relatively equal presence in space, with the ISA coming out a little better off after the conclusion of WW4. Russia still controls many orbital space stations and has a number of colonial holdings in the asteroid belt, though the loss of their Martian Colony is a sore spot that the current Czar is not taking as well as his American Counterpart. Rumors in the intelligence community persist that Russia has a long term plan to retake their lost holdings, but only time will tell.


## China

After World War 3 the government of China, what little of it remained after the nuclear annihilation of Beijing, was officially dissolved. The People’s Republic of China was gone and the last vestiges of communism went with it. China broke up along provincial lines and returned to the state it was in before the original unification of the Ancient Chinese Empire. Though still referred to as China, the area is a hotbed of political intrigue, infighting and conflict between the various independent states. A few of the old Provinces have been able to form stable governments, but many others are now territories of larger powers (particularly America & Russia). The majority have either failed to keep a single political party in power for very long (experiencing various coups or revolutions) or are contested territory with too much violence for a government to form. China is the new world hotspot and rivals the Middle East as a zone for conflict.

The Chinese/Asian territories are divided up as follows. South Korea fought against China and, as a result, America helped topple the North Korean regime (and reunify the peninsula). This new unified state is an ally of the ISA and has control over the Provinces of Liaoning, Jilin and Heilongjiang. Russia holds the large Province known as Zinjiang. The ISA controls the coastal Provinces of Guangdong, Fujian, Zhejiang and Jiangsu. Shandong is one of the few Provinces to remain stable and operates as a neutral free port for the region. Tibet and Yunnan also remain independent. Beyond that, the most stable governments are those closest to American Territory, with the conditions worsening the closer one gets to the interior of the region. The Province known as Nei Mongol is largely dominated by Orc Tribes and this has forced the Mongolians to reinforce the Great Wall of China (which they have taken possession of as a national treasure) so that it can now protect their borders. Several sections of the wall are reinforced with force fields, modern armor plating and weapon emplacements. Beijing remains a radioactive no man’s land.


## Africa and the Middle East

Many parts of Africa remain in a Third World state (or the modern equivalent anyway), with people living in villages, jungles or deserts much as they have for centuries. Vehicles and technology may have advanced, but many still live relatively simple lives in small communities. Many cities, especially on the coast, have developed to a point where they are as advanced as anything you’d find in North America, but there tends to be more of an edge to it, with many places where it may be too risky to go out alone at night. Northern Africa and the Middle East remain hot spots for conflict and have suffered numerous regime changes, revolutions and wars over the last 200 years. Many countries collapsed under the weight of the extended period of World War 4, with some even turning into major battlefields. Though some may still remain on the map, this is in name only. There are many regions that are ruled over by petty warlords & dictators, with no international relations, central government or regard for old borders and territory. Only two places remain consistently safe in Northern Africa: Egypt and the East Coast countries that sided with the New Commonwealth.

Many parts of Africa were destabilized due to a combination of economic pressures and the devastation of war, with some governments collapsing completely. Egypt was one that was holding together, but only just barely. When the Orc Crisis occurred, the savages rampaged through populated regions and (by random chance) almost completely wiped out the Egyptian Government when a large warband appeared within the capitol. There were still plenty of surviving government officials, but everyone in direct line to assume the Presidency had been killed. The chaos of the immediate crisis facing the country was too much for any of them to successfully assume power. In the midst of this, a cabal of Elven ArchMages, their bodyguards and a group of Elven Nobles & Knights assembled to take on the Orcs. Through a limited ability to communicate, they were able to join with local militia groups and police to save tens of thousands of civilian lives. Though the act was not without casualties, they bought enough time for the military reserves to organize a response. Due to the total collapse of the government, and their clear acts of heroism & sacrifice (among other factors), the Elves would end up assuming control over the Egyptian government.

Part of this was motivated by the discovery that proximity to Giza made their magic stronger, with the Elves taking control over that area as their new Homeland. Over the last 50 Years the original site has been restored and expanded, allowing it to serve as home to over 50,000 Elves, along with thousands more (purebloods & Half-Elves) that live in the Egyptian cities. Egypt is now ruled by a religious theocracy that focuses on the worship of the ancient Egyptian Gods (the gods that the Elven refugees served). Humans do have fair & equal representation in their government and the worship of Islam is still widespread, however, the reintroduction of the original religion of Egypt (Ra, Isis, Thoth, etc.) has not been as smooth as the Elves might have liked. The fact that Priests of this religion manifest magic powers, granting it a lot of legitimacy in the eyes of the Human population, isn’t helping any. To be fair, Human Clerics of Islam do manifest spiritual powers as well, but not as often and not always in people who are, by definition, Clerics. Faith is the key factor here. Just because you are a religious leader doesn’t mean you possess it or are even a true servant of your god.

The other significant change occurred in Southern Africa. The country of South Africa had been very successful in staying out of the war and focused mainly on national defense & self-sufficiency. The leaders of that nation had seen the writing on the wall (prior to the outbreak of violence) and engaged in economic development that would reduce, and in some cases eliminate, the need for outside trade. They focused primarily on trade with their immediate neighbors and encouraged them to invest heavily in similar programs. The result of this was that Southern Africa emerged from the war largely unscathed and their biggest problem was a population boost due to the arrival of the refugees (with only a few very small skirmishes with Orcs during that time). While the rest of the world was struggling to recover, the nations of Southern Africa united into a new political coalition, the likes of which had not been seen for centuries. It is unknown what ultimately motivated this, but the South African Republic (as it is now called today) has adopted the principles of freedom & liberty that were abandoned by the Americans when the nation became imperialist. South Africa serves as the capital of the new republic, with member states including Mozambique, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Zambia and Nambia, as well as various small islands off the coast. There are currently diplomatic talks to bring Madagascar into the Republic and it is believed that at least two other African nations will join over the next decade. The Republic has created a powerful national defense army. Part of the appeal of joining is that this would not only stabilize local government, but guarantee safety against hostile neighbors (of which there are many).


## [Space](/world-overview/2-space.md)