# Space

The Fourth World War was noteworthy for being Earth’s first interplanetary war. Over the course of the last two centuries, Humanity had expanded out into space and colonized the Moon, Mars, Asteroid Belt, Jupiter and Saturn, as well as constructed hundreds of space stations & smaller facilities all throughout the solar system. As Humanity expanded farther & farther, the limits of space travel created conditions where space explorers sometimes could not return home. The amount of time these trips took (and the limits on artificial gravity generation at the time) meant that there was a great risk of adapting permanently to zero gravity. Various treatments were attempted, but in the end it was inevitable that a separate race of people (who were adapted to life in space) would emerge. Something similar occurred on Mars, though it was not nearly as severe since the planet does generate natural gravity. Over time this problem was overcome through a combination of cybernetic surgeries and nano-machine treatments (and the innovation of fully cybernetic bodies), however, there are still certain biological and anatomical traits that mark you as being born in space or on Mars.

Ultimately, this created a situation where Humans were being born in space, with some living their whole lives without ever stepping foot on the home planet. This created a cultural divide where some Humans began to identify as Spacers or Martians and felt loyalty to “their people,” as opposed to Humanity or Earth. Some would come to see themselves as being exploited, since their quality of life remained stagnant (or got worse) while Earth reaped the benefits. Many felt that they had given up their ability to ever return home so that the fat cats on Earth could get richer. Talk of independence had been going on for quite a while, but the outbreak of WW4 created an opportunity that the Spacers couldn’t pass up. With Earth embroiled in their own conflicts and unable to respond (at least quickly) to problems in the outer solar system, Jupiter and Saturn declared independence and acted quickly to take control of military assets. The fact that shipments of vital resources from Earth had begun to slow down (forcing rationing of the population) made it easy to spin the situation, turning many civilians, and even some military personnel, to their side. It didn’t take long for Mars to join the fight and Earth suddenly found itself embroiled in a three way war.

On one side were the Americans, the Commonwealth and a few other allies, with the Russian Empire (and their allies) on the other. Initially the EU tried to stay out of it, but when Russia managed to negotiate alliances with countries in the Middle East & North Africa, there weren’t a lot of options left and they sided with the Commonwealth. Russia was a bit more prepared in the area of mechanized infantry and gained a lot of early victories in space. Unfortunately, they depended heavily on resources from their colonies and this eventually came to a halt later in the war. It was because of the fact that the Earth-based powers had to split their focus, with the rebellions taking place in the colonies, that the conflict lasted as long as it did. In fact, the brief years of peace that broke up the three major periods of conflict (over the 15 year span of the war) were only peaceful on Earth, as fighting continued out in space. The conflict in space never let up, and occasionally intensified, as this was used as an opportunity to try and retake the colonies. In the end, the space war was just as unsustainable and Earth had no choice but to recognize the independence of Mars, Saturn and Jupiter.

Today the Human race is spread throughout the solar system. Those living in space represent a large portion of the population, though Earth (and the space around it) is still where most people live. Mars, Jupiter and Saturn are all now independent colonies, but do suffer from a manpower shortage and each are addressing this problem in different ways. Travel to space is relatively easy due to the existence of 3 orbital elevator facilities (one in Seattle, one in the Mediterranean controlled by the EU and one in Russia) that handle the bulk of all transport between orbital facilities and the planet Earth. High altitude planes are also commonly used to launch small passenger shuttles into orbit. Trips to space are cheap (being roughly equivalent to an airplane ride today) and thousands of passengers make the journey each day. The elevators run around the clock and are serviced by massive facilities that employ thousands of people. Each elevator is on a cycle where it runs every 4 hours (sending and receiving a transport pod in that time) and pods are prepared weeks in advance before being sent up or down on the elevator. Security dealing with the operation of the elevator itself is very tight (due to the damage that could be caused by terrorism), however, the many warehouse facilities that service it use their own systems & staff and are often not nearly as secure. Even with this, nothing gets on the elevator without a very thorough inspection & verification process. It is very rare when a security breach at that level is successful.

Space travel is an everyday reality of life on Earth and it is possible to make the trip solely for tourism purposes (and many services exist with this in mind). Though a majority of people still go their entire lives without leaving the planet, it is as common as traveling to another continent. Space Travel has become so routine that it isn’t seen as a great adventure anymore, though jobs in space (especially dangerous ones) are an option for people seeking new opportunities or are desperate to change their lot in life. Modern medicine has many options to slow down or eliminate the deterioration of the body due to low gravity (modern gravity generation is able to hit about .5G on Starships and .7 on Space Stations) and cybernetic augmentation can be employed as a more long term solution. Though this varies greatly, the quality of life in space can be equal to that on Earth and some people even make it a regular commute.

The population of people that live in space is predominantly Human, however, some of the refugees (particularly their children) can be found there. They are not particularly common and it isn’t just because they are a minority population. Refugee culture tends to be more closely tied to magic, which gets weaker the farther away from Earth you get. Eventually it drops to a level where magic is all but impossible and most magic users lose their powers completely. Any magic artifacts in their possession become depowered as well and weaker items (such as magic potions) may even disenchant if left in that state too long. It is almost unheard of for a magic user to travel into space, except when they are on a journey to a place where magic works. So far, the only major locations where this is the case are Mars (which has magic levels comparable to Earth, but more consistent across the whole planet) and the Moon (which generates a very weak magic field).


## Earth Orbit

The space around Earth is extremely crowded, with thousands of satellites, defense installations, space stations and spacecraft. It is a very busy place that has so much commercial and private traffic (including spacecraft owned by private individuals) that it can be difficult to track every object. Robot drone ships also fly around performing various functions, such as routine maintenance on satellites/stations, military patrol duties and even sweeping space for particles or debris that could be a navigational hazard. This last duty is of vital importance and a great deal of resources are devoted to keeping the space lanes clean (drones are a far cheaper alternative to replacing a billion credit spacecraft).

Aside from the thousands of satellites or smaller stations (small being defined as able to hold a few hundred to a few thousand people), there are some significant points of interest. Each of the Orbital Elevators is tethered to a large space station that serves as a main hub for travel within the orbital community. They can handle at least a half million people (roughly half of which will be permanent residents), have a permanent military presence and feature extensive facilities for receiving spacecraft & transferring cargo. These stations are used primarily for commerce, however, they do also represent the interests of the nation that controls the elevator and foreign embassies are common. Other things you’ll encounter are space-based military installations, shipyards, private stations owned by corporations, scientific facilities and space colonies that are able to house at least a half million people. These colonies are located at the 5 major Lagrange Points near Earth.

Cyberspace is maintained by hundreds of large automated satellites that orbit the planet at specific locations for maximum coverage. These satellites also function as global communications networks and handle the massive data transfer necessary for Cyberspace to exist. Each satellite also has its own mini cyberspace network and this will be discussed in more detail in Chapter 11. These satellites are crucial to the world’s technological infrastructure and are some of the most heavily defended locations in orbit. The automated defenses could not hope to hold off a serious attack, but they are programmed to execute a lethal response against small craft should they get too close without proper clearance codes. Anyone who managed to get close enough would also have to get past numerous layers of security and it is unlikely that a Hacker would survive an attempt to break in or access its systems.


## The Moon

Earth’s only natural satellite has a large civilian population that is divided between 3 major cities. Most of the population lives underground, though there are many surface installations and smaller settlements. The main industry is mining and operations can be found all over the planetoid. Unlike the other colonies, the Moon remains solidly in Earth control and there is really no risk of it breaking away as an independent state. The cities on the Moon are administrated by civilian governments that are relatively independent, even though they are part of other Earth-based empires. Each city also plays host to private corporate interests who are granted significant freedom on account of the fact that they heavily invested in the original colonization efforts. These corporations also operate their own private facilities that do not fall under governmental control or oversight (at least as long as they don’t do anything to attract the wrong kind of attention).

The fact that the Moon is considered to be a neutral territory, not controlled by any terrestrial government (part of the reason why the cities are self-governing), means that the Megaconglomerates can also use it to operate outside of any governmental regulation. It is one of the few options for establishing a true extraterritorial corporation. The Moon is essentially the new tax shelter of the future and a number of corporate nterests maintain management operations here for legal & tax reasons. It is also the location of a number of prison colonies (due to the fact that it lowers the risk of escape attempts) and prisoners are offered the opportunity to work in the mines in exchange for a reduced sentence.


## Olympia Station

Olympia Station is one of the largest orbiting habitats (located at the L1 Lagrange position) and was originally created as a sort of orbiting United Nations. It was constructed using a combination of national & corporate investments and plays host to official embassies from most terrestrial nations. It is the only space station in orbit that is officially classified as an independent state (a status it enjoyed before WW4) and this neutrality has protected it from a lot of trouble over the decades. When WW4 finally ended, it was the location where everyone met to sign the peace treaty, as well as acknowledge the independence of Mars, Jupiter and Saturn. Some of the Megaconglomerates are officially headquartered here as a tactic to keep them outside of the jurisdiction of the nations on Earth. This doesn’t exempt them from following the laws of the countries where they operate, but it does create a few legal gray areas that can be exploited (including protection from some tax laws). Because the conglomerates are the main source of revenue for the station, they have a great deal of power here and its status as an orbiting United Nations also means that this is an ideal location to put their lobbyists to work. Even with all this, the station has a seedy side and does just as much illicit business through black market operations as it does above board. It is a hub for adventurers, mercenaries, criminals and people who don’t want to attract the wrong kind of attention. As unlikely as it may seem, this is quietly allowed since the major powers find value in having access to certain “off the books” services and private contractors. More than one politician has had to find alternative routes both on and off the station over the years.


## Mars

After the conclusion of World War 4, Mars was granted independence, though the conditions were somewhat unusual. The people fighting for their freedom were united against a common enemy, but with the goal to make it so that the individual Martian Cities could be independent nations and enjoy the same liberties as people living on Earth. The conditions of the treaty stipulated that Mars (which had fought for independence as a single society) must maintain a united world government, something that critics saw as the ultimate hypocrisy since Earth was not held to the same standard. On paper, the idea was that Mars needed a United Nations style body that could handle dealings with Earth on behalf of the whole planet, as well as maintain the United Martian Army (UMA). In actual fact, it was expected (privately) that political and cultural disagreements between the Martian cities would cause this arrangement to fail, and thus void the treaty. What nobody could possibly have anticipated was that a threat would arise that would be serious enough to keep the alliance intact.

Though man had been exploring Mars for centuries, serious efforts towards colonization began a little over a hundred years ago. This was a multi-stage plan involving the establishment of permanent bases (that would grow into cities), exploitation of mineral resources and a long term terraforming project. After a century, some vegetation was able to grow (along with simple bacteria and some insects) and the atmosphere had become thicker, but the project was still centuries away from making the planet habitable. After the arrival of the refugees, several hundred Druids would migrate to Mars when it was discovered that the planet had its own natural magic field. Using their powers over nature, they would accelerate the terraforming process significantly. By 2216, the atmosphere has become so thick that vegetation grows across vast swaths of land and there are even forests in close proximity to the cities. Within these more dense atmospheric zones, it is even possible for people to survive outside without a suit for limited periods of time.

Though life on Mars is somewhat comfortable (and the planet is plentiful in resources), it is not entirely peaceful. About 35 years after the end of the war (right about the point when the Druids were getting real results), raiders began attacking outposts, convoys and mining sites. When the military responded to this situation, their expeditionary force was attacked and destroyed by a large Horde of Orcs. This would be just the tip of the iceberg, as it was soon discovered that these Orcs numbered more than a hundred thousand. Nobody knows how it happened, since no official records of Orcs traveling to Mars exist, but the Orcs had been here for some time and were multiplying in secret. They retained their original culture, seemingly had never been subjugated and were a tribal people of savage barbarians. They had been living in the canyons & radiation zones (particularly a Martian city that had been destroyed by nuclear bombardment) and their unique physiology allowed them to adapt perfectly to these harsh conditions; including the ability to breathe the thin Martian air. It would even be discovered that their Shamans had somehow been engaged in their own terraforming process, with entirely alien biomes (composed of unknown jungle vegetation and monstrous animals) inhabiting the deep canyons & caverns of Mars.

The war against the Orcs would threaten Martian society and created conditions that forced the fractured city states to strengthen their fragile alliances. No single city had the military might to fight off the entire horde should it attack. A full scale war against the Orcs would soon break out and turn into a grinding war of attrition over the next three years. Though technologically inferior, the Orcs were able to use their Shamanistic magic, ferocity and knowledge of the terrain to even the odds. They were also able to survive in the radiation zones and had places they could retreat to that the Human forces were not able to attack easily. It would not be until an Orc military consultant was brought in from Earth that a key observation was made that turned the tide... the Orcs saw the Martians as a single enemy. By focusing on a defensive strategy (without initiating any provocative military attacks) and executing some skillful false flag operations, the Orcish Horde eventually began to break apart and collapse from infighting. The problem hasn’t gone away (and future Orc Wars are inevitable), but at least for now, infighting, skirmishes with defensive forces and harsh living conditions are keeping their numbers in check... mostly.

Today (2216) Mars is a busy place with a growing economy. The Orcs are an ongoing problem and there are territories that are undeniably under their control. Convoys need a military escort to ensure their safety and there is plenty of opportunity for mercenaries and private security. Corporate interests have been able to move back in and are “investing” in the local economy (though this is limited, depending on the politics of each city). Some fear that these foreign corporations will threaten individual freedom and seek to exploit the Martian people, as they did before the war. Crime is also an issue and the planet has a growing underworld & black market that even includes some “off the books” mining operations. The biggest problem Mars faces is a manpower shortage. Their growing economy means there is a huge demand for skilled labor, however, there aren’t as many people accepting critical jobs. Certain interests on Earth are discouraging immigration in retaliation for the loss of their holdings (this is occurring on both a corporate and governmental level) and encouraging immigration only increases the chances that Martian society will hold together.

Mars will pretty much take anyone at this point and is offering generous incentives (and a guarantee of employment) to immigrants willing to make the move. They even made the controversial decision of granting full citizenship (and legal rights) to any Android that comes to Mars. So far, just under 50 have taken them up on the offer, though it is unknown how many are caught & destroyed while trying to do so. This is one of the main sources of tension between Mars & Earth, as some accuse Mars of harboring terrorists. One thing that is carefully monitored is the immigration of full-blooded Orcs. Hundreds have come to Mars thinking that they could join with their brothers in the wastes & live free like their ancestors once did. None of these people have succeeded, as the Martian Orcs will slaughter any outsiders they encounter. Any of their own people that show signs of the genetic alterations inflicted on Orcs from Earth (namely a low birth rate and slow maturation) are killed, including parents, their children and anyone that Orc had sex with. They will not tolerate impurities of the bloodlines for ANY reason.

Ships travel to and from Mars regularly and it takes between 6 to 7 weeks to make the trip, depending on the time of year. In orbit, the planet has 3 large space stations. One is the main transport hub that connects to the planet’s sole Orbital Elevator (which is secured to a neutral spaceport, separate from the cities), one is a military base (controlled by Martian Space Command) and the third is a shipyard. A half dozen other satellites are in orbit for various purposes (including maintaining their own version of Cyberspace) and facilities exist on each of the planet’s moons. Mars engages in regular trade with both Earth & independent operators in the Asteroid Belt and has better relations with Jupiter & Saturn than Earth does.


## The Asteroid Belt

The Asteroid Belt (or just The Belt) lies beyond the orbit of Mars, though it is massive in scale and only a tiny fraction of it has been explored. There are over a dozen major space stations (all built into large asteroids that were hollowed out by mining) as well as hundreds of minor installations throughout the region. Some of these are busy & active, while others have been abandoned (and forgotten) when they either got too old or were no longer profitable. Occasionally a Prospector or Freelancer Crew will stumble across an abandoned base and some of these locations are used by Space Pirates. Prospectors are a powerful guild in The Belt that work to explore the asteroids and catalogue them to evaluate their contents. If they find something valuable (and sometimes an Asteroid could be visited multiple times before a significant mineral deposit is discovered), the Prospector gets a commission and the Guild gets a small percentage of the profits for a year. As a result, this is big business and claim jumping is an ongoing problem.

The majority of the business taking place in The Belt focuses around mining operations and the services that need to exist in order to support it (including recreation opportunities between tours). Bounty Hunting is a serious profession here because The Belt is an easy place for wanted men to hide. Employers are less likely to ask questions if you are willing to work, particularly with the more dangerous jobs. Mining inside of Asteroids is risky (under the best of conditions) and there is always someone willing to set you up with papers if you are prepared to work. Though the megaconglomerates and the terrestrial nations have a presence here, most of the work is performed by subcontractors and private firms. Law enforcement is only really present at the Space Stations, and even then, their main priority will be things that threaten the survival of the station, its people or the ability to conduct business. Murder is a big deal, especially if it happens publicly, but most crimes will only get you a slap on the wrist and a night in lock-up or (for the more severe or recurring offenses) exile from the station. Police also forward reports to the Captain of a docked ship, as it is often much easier to let them deal with their own troublemakers.


## Ceres

Ceres is a Dwarf Planet (the largest planetoid in the region) and is noteworthy for having a large quantity of ice. The only colony in The Belt is located on Ceres and it is officially a neutral port, though hardly an independent one. All of the Major Powers and Corporations have interests here and it is the single most important Hub of regional commerce, with more than 50% all business in The Belt going through the colony. The permanent population is about a half million people and the facility has docking bays capable of receiving up to a hundred ships at a time. Due to the low gravity of the planetoid, it generally is not a problem for ships to land & take off, though larger vessels may have to drop off and retrieve shipping containers. Ceres has enough Water to maintain an atmosphere within the colony (without need of outside resources) and is responsible for about 75% of the sustainable food production in The Belt. Food is their major export, with their water being in high demand and extremely expensive (if you can get it).


## Piracy

Piracy in The Belt is a serious concern, though it isn’t as widespread or as common as the movies would lead you to believe. Sometimes Pirates will hit a supply shipment or freighter, however, they tend not to be bloodthirsty and avoid damaging the hull integrity at all costs (air is valuable). When they take a ship, they are looking for valuable cargo and hostages that can be ransomed back at a profit. There are a few neutral stations that will deal with anyone and Pirates sometimes are able to operate out of their own hidden bases. That being said, the real money is in Ice Piracy. Ice is one of the most valuable commodities in The Belt because it can make air. Saturn has a vast Ice Ring that is jealously guarded by their military and they sell their Ice (to Jupiter and The Belt) at a premium. There are those that consider the massive value Jovian Ice to be worth any risk and many take that chance every year. Theft of one of Saturn’s Iceteroids (as they are jokingly called by Spacers) will provoke a deadly response from their military, but it could sell for a kings ransom in The Belt if you can retrieve one. Most don’t succeed (for various reasons) but it is the one kind of piracy that doesn’t carry harsh penalties if you get caught... except from Saturn of course.


## The Outer Colonies

The term Outer Colonies referrers to the colonies and bases located beyond the Asteroid Belt, however, when most people use the term, they refer to Jupiter and Saturn. Prior to the war, these regions were only home to permanent populations of space miners, support crew and some scientists performing research. There was a token military presence, if at all, but this increased significantly when war broke out. The terrestrial empires began to fear that their rivals might break the treaty and threaten supply lines (or outright attempt to capture territory) so they felt a need to shore up some of their more remote holdings. Ironically, it would be these additional military forces that would cost them those territories. A well-planned & coordinated coup (and the complacency of soldiers who did not expect to see combat) allowed the rebels to capture dozens of military & civilian vessels. This desperate group of miners, chafing under the yoke of exploitation, quickly became a credible military threat and seized control over Saturn. After that they moved on to Jupiter and were able to execute a similar operation there.

The workers and scientists living permanently in orbit around Jupiter had not suffered to the degree that the people of Saturn did (they certainly weren’t holding the same kind of grudge), but they were willing to join a fight for freedom. Given the political conditions on Earth, it had become quite obvious that they could not expect their situation to change any time soon. Quite the opposite in fact, because the demands from the terrestrial empires were increasing and there was less & less regard for the work being performed to supply them. Many of the people living around both gas giants had never even been to Earth, with some being third or fourth generation descendants of the original colonists. There was no loyalty to Earth at this point and they saw themselves as Spacers, a separate people from the Humans who gave them orders. At this point, joining with Mars was the logical course. The Martians lacked a space fleet, but they did have a large ground army, something the Outer Colonies would ultimately need to succeed. Forming a three way alliance was the only way any of them stood a realistic chance and this arrangement proved quite effective. It forced Earth to split its resources between the problems at home and the problems in space, and there was no way either side could risk committing the forces necessary to retake their lost colonies. The space fleets of Jupiter & Saturn were able to put enough pressure on Earth’s space forces (on both sides of the war) that there was no way to mount an effective campaign on Mars. Earth failed to recover space superiority and the Outer Colonies were too far away to risk a serious offensive against them.

In the end, the colonial forces won through clever tactics and attrition. But after the war, this unity failed to hold together. Mars emerged from the conflict with a desire to mend the rift with Earth and build strong diplomatic ties, while Saturn had extreme radical anti-Earth views. Saturn felt that the three worlds should stay united and form a coalition to oppose the people that had oppressed them all for so long, but both Mars and Jupiter (who had a prevailingly moderate political view) failed to see it that way. The leaders of Saturn felt betrayed and walked away from the table. They predicted that Earth would betray them all again (that any negotiation or treaty would be a pretense) and only a strong show of force & unity would allow them all to remain free. In the end, Earth was forced to make peace with each power individually. The nations of Earth acknowledged the independence of their former colonies and ceded all territories & facilities to the fledgling governments. They honestly had no other choice if they wanted peace. Only Saturn refused to meet in person and all negotiations took place via long range communications. From that point on, Saturn had closed borders and any ship caught violating their territory without proper authorization (and a Saturn military escort) will be fired upon.


## Jupiter

Jupiter is the largest planet in the solar system and home to a moderately sized Human population. They are predominantly Spacers or Transhumans (only a few hundred of the refugees have migrated there) and refer to themselves as Jovians. Their population is currently around 250,000 and they make extensive use of androids & humanoid robots to make up for these low numbers (estimates claim that they might have as many as a half million robots). Jupiter has 79 natural satellites, along with a thin ring that is composed primarily of space dust and small particles. The economy of Jupiter focuses mainly on mining its plentiful natural resources, as well as gas mining the atmosphere of the planet itself. The planet had 4 large self-sufficient space stations (each capable of holding about 10,000 people) and they are currently working on the construction of a fifth to serve as a military base. These stations originally served a variety of scientific & logistical functions (it is easier if larger ships don’t have to land) and one was a shipyard that was initially responsible for repairs & maintenance. Most of their population lives on the Galilean Moons (Io, Europa, Ganymede and Callisto) though Io is not geologically stable enough for permanent habitation. The population of Io is mainly involved in mining operations, while the other three each have a large city. Ganymede is the Capitol Moon of the Jupiter System and both Ganymede & Europa produce more than enough water to sustain the population indefinitely. The remaining planetoids are either locations of mining operations, scientific research or military outposts.

The government of Jupiter is political neutral and (at least for now) primarily focused on making their nation completely self-sufficient. They are wary of dealing with Earth, but have expanded diplomatic talks over the last 50 Years and do conduct trade through third party intermediaries in The Belt. They have the strongest diplomatic relations with Mars and Saturn, with all three have maintaining mutual defense treaties in the event Earth attempts to retake any one of them. So far, they have been fairly successful in their goals, with steady expansion of their cities as the population gradually expands. They have extensive hydroponic farms, aquariums, preserves (with both wild & farm animals) and have even constructed natural environments that their people can visit like parks (complete with an artificial sky). They are still developing manufacturing (and must import certain materials & products) but their exports bring in billions every year and their economy is stable.

Jupiter has a sizeable fleet of over a hundred military craft and several dozen large cargo ships, but the majority of their shipping is handled through contractors or shipping companies that are better equipped. A majority of their short range starfighters are drone ships, while larger interceptors and heavy assault craft are piloted by living pilots. Their military forces are mainly used for border patrols, search & rescue (for any ships in distress that are reasonably within range) and providing escorts for freighters heading back to The Belt (piracy is an issue, even this far out). Because of their proximity to a gas giant, fuel is plentiful and cheap so trips like this are no problem for their fleet. Jupiter focuses mainly on their own territory and are less concerned with expanding operations out into the solar system. They do sponsor a number of scientific expeditions every year and have been heavily involved in the project to develop the light speed engine.


## Saturn

Unlike Mars or Jupiter, Saturn holds a hard-line stance against Earth and is very hostile towards the home planet of Humanity. They have closed borders and any ships that are allowed to enter the planetary system must follow a strict flight plan with a military escort. It is well known that ANY Earth military vessel that violates their borders, regardless of the reason, will be fired upon and they have refused to help ships in distress on multiple occasions. This hostility goes back to the well documented fact (and Saturn has gone to great lengths to make sure of this) that the local population was held in a condition of virtual slavery by corporations contracted to mine Saturn’s resources. The situation may actually be a bit  exaggerated by history (since Saturn was the winner after all) but they do hold an even bigger grudge against the political system that allowed special interests to get away with violating Human Rights. Consequently, Saturn remains very hostile to Earth & its institutions and will have no direct dealings with their home planet in any form. All trade is conducted through intermediaries in The Belt, Mars and Jupiter.

Saturn’s closed door policy means that there are many details about their society, political system and infrastructure that are unknown, but much can be inferred based on past encounters. Due to its remote location, Saturn was even more self-sufficient than Jupiter at the outset of the war (something they are likely to have improved). Saturn has 82 natural satellites (aside from its rings), however, most of these are very small chunks of rock with diameters ranging between 2 and 130 miles. Only 7 of the moons (Titan, Iapetus, Rhea, Dione, Tehtys, Enceladus & Mimas) are large enough for gravitational forces to make them round. The first three were known to have active colonies, while the rest had bases, scientific facilities and/or mining operations. Like Jupiter, Saturn also focused heavily on mining and it is known that they are exporting a limited amount of Ice from the rings (to the Belt) at a considerable profit. Due to the nature of Titan’s atmosphere, there was a plan on the books to terraform it (the planetoid is larger than Mercury) but it is unknown whether or not the government of Saturn has the means to execute this plan. They have devoted considerable resources to military development and it appears that their space fleet is twice the size of Jupiter’s, though how they manage that level of manpower is unknown.

Cyberspace has a lot of conspiracy theorists who are researching supply chains and claim to have discovered evidence of large quantities of biological resources (including smuggled animals) being sent to Saturn. Though many wild theories abound as to what this could mean, some do point out that this would be consistent with a program to set up large scale sustainable food production. Prior to the war, the population of Saturn was less than that of Jupiter and (accounting for losses in combat and a reasonable birth rate) it is believed that they couldn’t possibly have more than 200,000 people. Even if they had some sort of eugenics program to expand their population, it shouldn’t be more than a quarter million at this point. The conspiracy theorists counter the food argument by pointing out that Saturn would need twice this many people to account for the level of food production estimated by the shipments. Of course, there are those that also point out that if they have somehow managed to initiate a terraforming process on Titan, then they would need to establish an ecosystem and the bio-mass could be used in a project to created artificial animals.

Culturally, they are doing something that happened in Europe in the wake of the fall of Rome. Roman culture was seen as oppressive and everything about that nation (good or bad) was seen as a sign of an oppressor and abandoned after the collapse. Similarly, the people of Saturn (who have started calling themselves Saturians) have rejected the customs, laws and social norms of Earth. That isn’t to say that they are creating a lawless or anarchistic culture, but they refuse to look to Earth as a standard and are building their own government, culture & laws from the ground up. There are many things that Earth outright rejects or sees as immoral where Saturians may view things a bit differently.


## Neptune, Uranus and the Dwarf Planets

Neptune and Uranus each have a small space station orbiting them (able to house up to 5000 people), but after the war these became neutral stations, operating with international oversight. After what happened with Saturn, the United Nations began scrutinizing corporate holdings much more closely and felt that additional regulation needed to be in place. These Stations are now managed by administrators appointed by the UN and the corporations that built them (to exploit the natural resources of the planets) are now tenants. They are now free ports that anyone can use and there is a stronger emphasis on scientific research. Military battleships are also sent there to provide protection (and to support the UN Administrator) on a 6 Month tour. Both planets are regularly mined for resources by various parties.

The Dwarf Planets of Pluto, Makemake and Eris are locations for scientific research, as well as some mining, though this is minimal. At any given time there may be, at most, a hundred people on each planet and it is often half that. The main purpose they serve is as locations for deep space radar installations, allowing scientists to monitor and study outer space with a minimum of interference from the more inhabited areas of the solar system. They also work with CETI and have a secondary purpose to function as monitoring stations in the event that an extraterrestrial craft approaches the solar system. The United Nations Space Agency (UNSA) is preparing, in the next 15 years, to launch a number of deep space probes that have the goal of reaching nearby star systems. It is the mission of the monitoring stations to identify possible targets for this mission. At least that’s the public line. Some believe this mission has already started, with dozens of probes already sent out into deep space.


## [Bonus: A world of Adventure](/world-overview/3-adventure.md)
