# A World of Adventure

Now that you have an understanding of what this campaign setting is, where do you go from here? RPGs, at their core, are a power fantasy for the players and a chance for GMs to feel the thrill of seeing their story come to life. The goal was to create a Sci-Fi setting where Players and GMs can create any kind of futuristic campaign they want. If you want to be an edgy Cyberpunk prowling the mean streets and sticking it to The Man, you can do that. A Mercenary or Soldier? We got you. An elite team of cyborg cops chasing down terrorists? Done. A Bounty Hunter chasing the space lanes for the most wanted... Be seeing you Space Cowboy.

Hunting Rogue Androids or Clones. Yes! You can even be a leaf on the wind. It’s also possible to create a super hero style campaign where people with special powers, cybernetics or training can take down enhanced criminals. Another big feature is the ability to place an entire campaign within Cyberspace as the primary setting... and you don’t need to specialize as the team Hacker just to stay relevant.

Cybersymbiosis does have a definite campaign setting, but it is flexible & diverse enough to accommodate the kind of story you would want to tell. It isn’t just a dark future where everything sucks, nor is it particularly inspirational. The goal was to mirror the complexities of our real world and hopefully progresses society in a direction that feels plausible. There are a lot of opportunities for storytelling here and we’ve taken great pains to make sure that the Players & GMs will have as much freedom to explore them as possible. The characters won’t be living in a slave state and surveillance isn’t so out of control that every little infraction will get you busted (or at least there are plenty of ways around it). The environment here is quite fertile for adventure, so go nuts with it. As stated previously, if you’re familiar with series or films like Ghost in the Shell, Cowboy Bebop, Robocop, Total Recall or Bladerunner (to name but a few) you should already have a pretty solid idea of where we’re going with this and the kind of world the PCs will be exploring. Get going and discover what adventures await. 