# World Overview 2216

The comic series Cybersymbiosis opens up in the year 2216 (200 years after the publication of the first page of the comic series) and follows the adventures of a group of Freelancers who are hired to rob a Downtown tech company. Naturally they find themselves betrayed and soon discover that what looked like a simple robbery was actually at the center of a corporate power play with massive repercussions. Cybersymbiosis only shows a very narrow snapshot of life on Earth. The world building that went into it is extensive and far more than could easily be shown in the pages of a comicbook series. If you are familiar with Ghost in the Shell, Blade Runner or Cowboy Bebop... then you probably have a good idea of what I envisioned this campaign setting to be like. That being said, it gets a lot stranger & more sinister if you dig deep enough.


## The Eruption of Mount Rainier

The defining event in Human History occurred on 18, April 2162 (54 years before the start of the comic series) when Mount Rainier, which had laid dormant for centuries, suddenly erupted without warning. The eruption blew the top off the mountain, and the effects could be seen as far away as Australia, but it wasn’t just a typical (albeit impressive) natural phenomenon. At that exact moment, all across the planet, flashes of light began to appear. They happened in major cities, in the middle of deserts, on highways and even in the middle of battlefields. When vision cleared, people found that strange alien humanoids (many of whom were quite human looking) were standing where the light once was. These people spoke alien languages and were just as confused as Humanity, given that most of them had no warning about what was happening. The alien arrivals numbered in the millions and it would take a while for Humanity to discover that they were, in fact, refugees fleeing a war on another world (an irony that was lost on no one).

At that time Humanity had been embroiled in a Fourth World War and this event gave the major powers the excuse they had been looking for to enact a cease fire. The situation was chaotic and uncertain because nobody could have expected that first contact with alien life would occur in this fashion. The war had gone on so long (about 15 years by this point, with only brief Cold War style breaks in the fighting) that many feared Humanity had already passed the point of no return, with the collapse of society imminent. It would take many months to figure out what to do with the refugees. Ultimately they were released into the general population (those that could be rounded up that is) once it was determined that they weren’t going to spread a plague and the language barrier was overcome.

There were a few unusual details that surrounded the event. This would initially be met with skepticism, but the aliens claimed that their arrival was through magical means. Apparently a massive ritual was enacted to teleport their remaining population to Earth, though how they chose their destination (if it was chosen at all) was never made particularly clear. Most of the people were civilians who had no idea this was even going to happen and were just as shocked at their arrival as Humanity was. The method that brought them here was what caused the eruption and the portal never closed. It is still open and can be seen as an aurora borealis in the skies above Mount Rainier (particularly at night). Consequently, an area of roughly 50 Miles around the mountain is now off-limits and the site of extensive scientific research projects & military operations. There were also environmental changes that resulted from this event as well. Whatever it was that allows magic to function on their home planet (Alluria) is emanating from the portal and changing the environment of Earth so that these abilities work here as well.

This made Washington State, in the Imperial States of America, a worldwide center for magical research, however, by 2216 magic works almost everywhere on Earth to some degree. There are definitely locations (such as Giza or Stone Henge) where it is stronger than others and the practice of magic has become relatively common amongst Humanity. Earth is still predominantly a technological & materialistic society, however, the introduction of magic (and alien cultures) has caused a social transformation that is still ongoing to this day. Humanity is gradually rediscovering its spiritual heritage and traditional values, but there is also an X-Factor in that some Humans have begun to worship alien gods. Earth of 2216 is highly advanced, with all of the hallmarks of a cyberpunk society, but with a touch of the alien now added into the mix.


## Alien Refugees

The refugee population that arrived on Earth numbered in the millions, but what was the most surprising is that many of them looked very similar to Humans. In terms of appearance, they actually resembled the classic fantasy archetypes of Elves, Dwarves, Gnomes and Orcs. There were other lesser races as well, but the vast majority were among those four. They, of course, had their own languages, cultures and names for themselves, though Humans inevitably called them by the names popular fiction had attributed to their likeness. For the most part, the refugees accepted this as the names for their races in the language of Man. But what was most surprising was that these people were biologically similar to Humans and some could even interbreed.

The dominant theory on the matter is that the aliens must have come from a parallel universe that is somehow connected to this one (possibly some sort of quantum offshoot) where evolution took a different path. To back this up, it would be learned that the gods the aliens worshipped bore a strong resemblance to Humanity (some of the aliens prostrated themselves upon seeing Humans for the first time) and their legends tell of an ancient mortal race that went extinct thousands of years ago. The description of this race (at least from what their historians can recall) sounds very similar to primitive man, leading to the theory that we died out on their world while other racial variants continued to evolve. Of course, this doesn’t really explain the Orcs and the aliens don’t have many answers for that one. For as long as recorded history, they have treated Orcs as a scourge and have been more concerned with beating them back than solving the mysteries of their origin.

The alien refugees have, over the last fifty years, managed to assimilate into Human Culture without too much difficulty. There is some racism, but the real problem facing them is the glass ceiling. It is much easier for a Human (or a halfbreed) to rise through the ranks of power or achievement than it is for the refugee population and this gives them a strong incentive to find their own opportunities. They are more likely to start a business and cluster up into their own communities. Those who succeed can then loan money to other members of their society, which in turn creates a cycle of economic growth that continues to repeat. Obviously the success of this tactic is variable (and some races are better at it than others), but it is how they are building new lives and establishing themselves as legitimate parts of the social order.


## The Orc Crisis

While the other races were dealing with the confusion of being abruptly ripped from their homes, the Orcs were reorganizing along clan lines and falling back on what they knew... raiding & pillaging. At this time Humanity was still locked in the conflict of WW4 and most of their armies were committed to the front lines. National defenses were set up along the lines of repelling an attack against their borders, not responding to a crisis at the heart of their most secure territories. When the Orcish hordes descended on an unsuspecting civilian population, they were completely unprepared. Local police mobilized where they could, but most were totally overwhelmed and cut down.

The Orcs appeared in outlying communities as often as they did in major metropolises and sometimes even inside of secure fortifications. They swept across cities like a tidal wave of death, taking what they wanted, burning buildings and reveling in their victories. By the time any kind of response could be organized, the devastation was catastrophic. As technology advanced, mankind had moved farther & farther from the grim realities of war. Technology had made it an abstract thing where it was easy to demonize the enemy and you rarely saw the consequences firsthand. It didn’t impact the lives of the common citizen that much, as people had grown numb to it all and felt disconnected. This all changed when the Orcs came because mankind was suddenly subjected to a level of savagery and violence that they had not seen for a thousand years.

The Orcs were indiscriminate. They attacked the peasant and the powerful alike. They cut down generals who treated their soldiers like numbers. They burned hospitals and orphaned children. They slaughtered and laughed and cheered their victories. Afterwards many would look back on this and wonder if the Orcs had been the instrument of judgment to punish mankind for abandoning god and walking the path of their own destruction. Mankind may not have been prepared for the onslaught, but they were more than capable of vengeance.

The nations of Earth recalled their armies and mobilized for civil defense as fast as they possibly could. Their response was brutal. In a matter of days the Orcish population had been reduced by more than 80%, but the damage was done. The world’s technological infrastructure was devastated and to such a degree that continuing the war would not have been possible, even if there was still someone willing to fight. For the Orcs, however, it was a very different situation. They had just been defeated by the most powerful race they’d ever encountered and with a speed & brutality the refugee races could never achieve. They were not suddenly a defeated or cowed people, but instead looked upon Humanity with great respect, reverence and admiration. These Orcs only respected strength and Humans were the strongest race they had ever encountered. There was only one course of action by Orc thinking. As the Human armies marched to what they believed would be the final stand of their enemy, they were instead greeted with a scene that would haunt many of them for years to come. Orcs, by the thousands, kneeling in submission with their weapons on the ground before them.

## [Earth’s New Imperial Era](/world-overview/1-earth.md)

## [Space](/world-overview/2-space.md)

## [Bonus: A world of Adventure](/world-overview/3-adventure.md)